Section 1.1
Q: What is the difference between a host and an end system? List several different types of end systems. Is a Web server an end system?
A: Hosts and end systems have the same meaning. They both refer to devices that are connected to the Internet and that are the ultimate destination or origin of messages or data.
Some examples of end systems are phones, desktop PCs, laptops, refrigerators, watches, cars, etc. A web server is also an end system. 
When browsing the web, communication usually occurs between a PC/Laptop/Mobile Phone and a Web server - that is, between 2 end systems.

Q: How does Wikipedia describe diplomatic protocol?
A: Wikipedia describes diplomatic protocols as unspoken rules that have been established through time.
It's a way for people in Government positions to show respect and courtesy to other politicians depending on the hierarchy.

Q: Why are standards important for protocols?
Standards are important for protocols because it allows 2 end systems to communicate with each other.
If one end system expects something in a request, then the sender must include that expectation in the request. This way, the receiver can figure out what to do with the request.
These expectations are standards, and it allows multiple devices and applications to communicate with each other if they all adhere to the standards.
This creates "interoperation" between multiple devices.

Section 1.2
Q: List 4 access technologies. Classify each one as home access, enteprise access, or wide-area wireless access.
A: 1. 3G, 4G, 5G - wide-area wireless access.
2. Wi-Fi - small-area wireless access.
3. Fiber-to-the-Home - home-access.
4. Digital Subscriber Line - home-access.
5. Cable - home-access.
6. Ethernet - Enterprise-acces/home.

Q: Is HFC transmission rate dedicated or shared among users? Are collisions possible in a downstream HFC channel? Why or why not?
A: HFC transmission rates are shared among users. If there are many users simultaneously downloading something, then the speed of the download for each of these users 
is much lower than it would have been had each user downloaded on different occasions. 
Collisions are not possible on the downstream because all data originates from a single source, the head.
The data then travels down and separates from the main fiber link to the cable link that is attached to one specific home.

Q: List the available residential access technologies in your city. For each type of access, provide the advertised downstream rate, upstream rate, and monthly price.
A: N/A

Q: What is the transmission rate of Ethernet LANs?
A: Up to 10 Gbps.
 
Q: What are some of the physical media that Ethernet can run over?
A: Copper wires
  
Q: HFC, DSL, and FTTH are all used for residential access. For each of these access technologies, provide a range of  transmission rates and comment on whether the transmission rate is shared or dedicated.
A: N/A

Q: Describe the most popular wireless Internet access technologies today. Compare and contrast them.
A: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, 3G, 4G, and 5G.

Q: Suppose there is exactly one packet switch between a sending host and a receiving host. 
The transmission rates between the sending host and the switch and between the switch and the receiving host are R1 and R2, respectively. 
Assuming that the switch uses store-and-forward packet switching, what is the total end-to-end delay to send a packet of length L? 
(Ignore queuing, propagation delay, and processing delay.)
A: L/R1 + L/R2.

Q: What advantage does a circuit-switched network have over a packet-switched network? 
What advantages does TDM have over FDM in a circuit-switched network?
A: A circuit-switched network maintains a continuous, uninterrupted connection between 2 end systems.
The packets do not have to be delayed by unavailability of links.

Q: Suppose users share a 2 Mbps link. Also suppose each user transmits continuously at 1 Mbps when transmitting, but each user transmits only 20 percent of the time. 
(See the discussion of statistical multiplexing in Section 1.3.)
a. When circuit switching is used, how many users can be supported?
A: 2 users, each taking up 1 Mbps.

b. For the remainder of this problem, suppose packet switching is used. 
Why will there be essentially no queuing delay before the link if two or fewer users transmit at the same time? 
Why will there be a queuing delay if three users transmit at the same time?
A: There will be no queuing delay if 2 or fewer users transmit at the same time because they will only transmit at most an aggregate of 2 Mbps, which is supported by the link.
Three users trying to transmit at the same time means that 3 Mbps of data is trying to move at the same time. Since the link can only support 2 Mbps, the remaining 1 Mbps will have to be queued until
space is available on the link for transmission.

c. Find the probability that a given user is transmitting.
A: 20%.

d. Suppose now there are three users. Find the probability that at any given time, all three users are transmitting simultaneously. Find the fraction of time during which the queue grows.
A: 20% * 20% * 20%

Q: Why will two ISPs at the same level of the hierarchy often peer with each other? How does an IXP earn money?
A: An IXP, an Internet exchange point, makes money by providing a place where customer ISPs can link to provider ISPs via the IXP's routers.
They can also peer with each other and share the cost of the provider ISPs.

Q: Some content providers have created their own networks. Describe Google’s network. What motivates content providers to create these networks?
A: Eliminates the need to of paying Tier-1 ISPs for Internet access.

Q: Consider sending a packet from a source host to a destination host over a fixed route. List the delay components in the end-to-end delay. 
Which of these delays are constant and which are variable?
A: Nodal processing delay, queuing delay, transmission delay, and propagation delay = total nodal delay.

Q: Visit the Transmission Versus Propagation Delay interactive animation at the companion Web site. 
Among the rates, propagation delay, and packet sizes available, find a combination for which the sender finishes transmitting before the first bit of the packet reaches the receiver. 
Find another combination for which the first bit of the packet reaches the receiver before the sender finishes transmitting.
A: N/A

Q: How long does it take a packet of length 1,000 bytes to propagate over a link of distance 2,500 km, propagation speed 2.5 # 108 m/s, and transmission 
rate 2 Mbps?
A: ((1,000 * 8) bits / 2,000,000 bits/second) + (2,500 * 1,000)m / (2.5 * 10 ^ 8) m/s

CHAPTER 1  •  COMPUTER NETWORKS AND THE INTERNET
 rate R bps? Does this delay depend on packet length? Does this delay depend 
on transmission rate?
 R19. Suppose Host A wants to send a large file to Host B. The path from Host A to Host 
B has three links, of rates R1 = 500 kbps, R2 = 2 Mbps, and R3 = 1 Mbps.
 a. Assuming no other traffic in the network, what is the throughput for the 
file transfer?
 b. Suppose the file is 4 million bytes. Dividing the file size by the through
put, roughly how long will it take to transfer the file to Host B?
 c. Repeat (a) and (b), but now with R2 reduced to 100 kbps.
 R20. Suppose end system A wants to send a large file to end system B. At a very 
high level, describe how end system A creates packets from the file. When 
one of these packets arrives to a router, what information in the packet does 
the router use to determine the link onto which the packet is forwarded? 
Why is packet switching in the Internet analogous to driving from one city to 
another and asking directions along the way?
 R21. Visit the Queuing and Loss interactive animation  at the companion Web site. 
What is the maximum emission rate and the minimum transmission rate? 
With those rates, what is the traffic intensity? Run the interactive animation 
with these rates and determine how long it takes for packet loss to occur. 
Then repeat the experiment a second time and determine again how long it 
takes for packet loss to occur. Are the values different? Why or why not?
 SECTION 1.5
 R22. List five tasks that a layer can perform. Is it possible that one (or more) of 
these tasks could be performed by two (or more) layers?
 R23. What are the five layers in the Internet protocol stack? What are the principal 
responsibilities of each of these layers?
 R24. What is an application-layer message? A transport-layer segment? A net
work-layer datagram? A link-layer frame?
 R25. Which layers in the Internet protocol stack does a router process? Which lay
ers does a link-layer switch process? Which layers does a host process?
 SECTION 1.6
 R26. What is self-replicating malware?
 R27. Describe how a botnet can be created and how it can be used for a DDoS attack.
 R28. Suppose Alice and Bob are sending packets to each other over a computer 
network. Suppose Trudy positions herself in the network so that she can 
capture all the packets sent by Alice and send whatever she wants to Bob; she 
can also capture all the packets sent by Bob and send whatever she wants to 
Alice. List some of the malicious things Trudy can do from this position.
