R1. Let’s review some of the terminology used in this textbook. 
Recall that the name of a transport-layer packet is segment and 
that the name of a link-layer packet is frame. 
What is the name of a network-layer packet? 
Recall that both routers and link-layer switches are called packet switches. 
What is the fundamental difference between a router and link-layer switch?
A: A network-layer packet is called a datagram.
A packet switch is a device that forwards a packet from the input link to the output link.
A router is a packet switch that bases its forwarding decision on the network-layer's datagram header fields. 
A link-layer switch is a packet switch that bases it forwarding decision on the link-layers frame header fields.

R2. We noted that network layer functionality can be broadly divided into data plane functionality and control plane functionality. 
What are the main functions of the data plane? Of the control plane?
A: The main function of a data plane is to control how a packet is forwarded from the input link to the output link.
The main function of a control plane is to control how a packet is routed from host to host. It determines the path that a packet should traverse as it makes its way across the network.

R3. We made a distinction between the forwarding function and the routing function performed in the network layer. 
What are the key differences between routing and forwarding?
A: See answer to question 2 above.

R4. What is the role of the forwarding table within a router?
A: The forwarding table is an index table that has information on where a certain packet with specific headers should be forwarded to. The router will index the value of a packet's header in the forwarding table to determine the output link that the router should forward the packet to.

R5. We said that a network layer’s service model “defines the characteristics of end-to-end transport of packets between sending and receiving hosts.” 
What is the service model of the Internet’s network layer? 
What guarantees are made by the Internet’s service model regarding the host-to-host delivery of datagrams?
A: The Internet's network layer service model is called best-effort.
It has no guarantees.